---
layout: post
comments: true

title: DC Crime Statistics Scraper
description: I scraped the DC Crime Statistics website. Here's what I found.

author: Jasmine M. Ellis
email: jasmineellis2016@u.northwestern.edu
twitter: jasminemonet_
---
This week, I decided to take a look at DC Crime Statistics and extract that data. 

Here's a link to the original data source: <a href="http://mpdc.dc.gov/node/199172"> DC Crime Statistics </a>

When I first looked at the DC.gov website, I wanted to see what the trends were with the data from 2007-2014. After taking the data from the website, I was able to see the trends regarding the different types of crimes. 

I was surprised that larceny/theft increased drastically in comparison to other crimes like stolen autos. I'm wondering why stolen autos and larceny/theft are in two separate categories. I also think it would be better for the dataset to have a key somewhere which actually explains what crimes fall under that category. It would give myself and others looking at the data more clarity on how the Metropolitan Police Department determines, which crime should go where. 

I also think it's important to note that I'm not sure how accurate this dataset would be for journalists and other audiences. In undergrad, I learned that not all crimes are necessairly reported and that the police can only track reported crimes. As a result, I think that these numbers could be a lot higher in some areas. I think that a specifically the numbers involving the rape cases are probably higher since not all survivors come forward. 

Here's a link to the Google sheet that I generated: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1zYVQgkh3ujfnVa61mUQuhfE7zumM552t4h8Mz1Yin70/edit#gid=0">DC Crime Statistics Generated Google Sheet</a> 

Visually, I think it would be better for that data to be in a line graph in order to see the trends better. After scraping the data and moving it to a Google Sheet, I did just that. And I found that the graph was easier to understand vs. looking at a bunch of numbers in the different columns. Here's what the graph looks like:

<iframe width="776" height="479.8750395291089" seamless frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1zYVQgkh3ujfnVa61mUQuhfE7zumM552t4h8Mz1Yin70/pubchart?oid=2007169136&amp;format=interactive"></iframe>
