---
layout: post
comments: true

title: "After Babylon" Database vs. "Most Valuable Sports Franchises" Database
description: Thoughts on what good and bad data visulaization looks like.

author: Jasmine M. Ellis
email: jasmineellis2016@u.northwestern.edu
twitter: jasminemonet_
---
This week, I decided to challenge myself in two subject areas that I stuggle with: languages and sports. Data visualization is something that I'm just now learning about so I thought it would be good to pick two examples that are slightly foreign to me. I selected "After Babylon: Analysis of the current lingusitic situation of the world" and "Most Valuable Sports Franchises." After spending a significant amount of time with both data visualizations, I realized that one would be considered better than the other. Not to my surprise the languages one was easier to navigate than the sports one. No surprise there, I guess... since I strongly dislike sports. Here are my thoughts on both:

<a href "http://snip.ly/pJsZ#http://www.puffpuffproject.com/languages.html">After Babylon: Analysis of the current lingusitic situation of the world</a> 

Created in 2013 by the Puff Puff Team (made up of five people) the database takes a look at the languages across the globe. The first thing I noticed when looking at the database was the chart used to show the number of languages are in the world. According to the time that it was created there were (and possibly still are) "2.678 living languages in the world placed in their birthplace." I really like the chart because it gives a great visual aspect of the languages. There's also a "linguistic hierarchy" that illustrate three terms: language, genus and family. 

In addition to the first chart I mentioned there are several others. One chart looks at the number of speakers per language like "Indo-European" and "Japanese." There is also a chart that shows the "10 Most Spoken Languages," which are indicated by different circles that have a number in front of them. The most spoken language is Mandarin (848 million people) and the least spoken language is German (83 million people). Last, but not least the database looks at the "loanword system," which is defined as "a word adopted from another language and completely or partially naturalized." There are 14.680 exchange words among languages says the database. 

After taking a critical look at this database there are many reasons why I think it's a good representation of data visulaization. One of these reasons being that it's user-friendly. While there isn't a whole bunch of bells and whistles that's what makes this a database worth looking at because it's straight-forward. The user doesn't have to be concerned with navigating the database to find information because it's all there as soon as the page appears. There are also definitions for different terms involving language and lingiustics. It's useful because people like myself, who may not understand linguistics, can look at the database and get an understanding of the diversity in the world. Last, but not least, the charts help people visualize just how many languages there are in the country.

<a href="http://www.columnfivemedia.com/work-items/interactive-most-valuable-sports-franchises"> Most Valuable Sports Fanchises</a>

This database looks at the most valuable players based on sports franchises. The database is on one page and separates each sport by category from "American Football" to "Hockey."Each category has bubbles on a chart that shows championships and years competing. Each bubble also lists information on the teams and their rankings by Forbes.

The databse is terrible for several reasons. One reason it's so terrible is because it's an absolute mess to look at. Pretty much all of the circles are clumped together and you have to hover your mouse over each one to read them. As I mentioned in the beginning of this post, I hate sports. And I think that the creators of this database should've taken into account that not everyone likes sports. So like I said before, I hate sports and this database would've been a great way to help people understand sports better. However, all it is a mess. 

It's hard to navigate as I said before. It's hard to understand. It literally makes no sense. There's absolutely no point to this database at all. Therefore, I think that this database is terrible. It would have been better off if the database had been split into different charts even if that meant things would be less interactive. At least myself and others could understand it. And then there's like nothing here that's interesting or different to look at. Maybe they should've included an interactive timeline that shows when the first championship for whatever sports category began. Some background context would've been great. But instead, I feel like I was thrown into the wilderness and was struggling to figure out what exactly I was looking at on my screen. And I'm still just as confused with everything when I first looked at it as I am now.
