---
layout: post
comments: false

title: LA Neighborhood Councils and Bus Stops
description: This map shows the neighboorhood councils (purple bubbles) and the locations of the bus stops (white bubbles w/ black outlines) in LA

author: Jasmine M. Ellis
email: jasmineellis2016@u.northwestern.edu
twitter: jasminemonet_
---
For this assignment, I decided to overlap two spacial datasets. I first selected the neighboorhood councils in LA because I wanted to see where they are in the different neighborhoods in the city. Since it's an election year, I thought that it would be interesting to see just how accessible these are politicans are to their constituents. In order to see this, I placed another layer over this dataset. I thought that the bus stops in LA would help me understand things a lot better. And I was right. 

If you take a look at the map, the neighborhood councils (purple bubbles) are in some cases spaced out pretty far from the bus stops (white bubbles with black outline). I imagine that this can be stressful for some people who want to be involved with the neighborhood councils but live far. I also imagine that this could be frustrating for people in the council to reach all of their consituents. For example, there is a neighborhood council near Beverly Glen but the nearest bus stops are by Bel Air. Also, taking a look at the map, I noticed that most of the neighborhood councils are located towards the middle of the city. I think that it would be helpful for the council to take a look at a map like the one I made and see what they can do to help more people get to meetings and events.
<iframe width="100%" height="520" frameborder="0" src="https://jasmineellis.carto.com/viz/765f0792-5215-11e6-bdd2-0e233c30368f/embed_map" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen></iframe>
